hi i'm matt and i'm tom and we're at
electromagnetic-field festival that's
the enormous hackett cam that's running
all this weekend in the middle of the UK
this isn't a normal video we did a
half-hour talk today about emoji our
emoji only messenger app yeah you might
remember the video of that for a few
weeks ago but if that isn't your thing
there's some other videos around here
you might be interested in and if you
watch it on mobile but they're in the
description if that is your thing then
enjoy the tour so we were in Westfield
in Westfield Stratford in London in the
kind of hellhole of consumerism that is
near the Olympic Park
I cannot remember why we were there I
think we had both had a long day and we
were having a lovely sit down outside
Jamie's Italian not in Jamie's Italian
just outside Jamie's Italian is a
restaurant it's not just the person that
Jamie Oliver knows you want ad stepping
I'm not sure the camera can see you
there um that might have been deliberate
and he says to me um he basically came
up with the idea for an emoji messenger
and I said well that that idea which was
actually true
I had thought about as well but it was
weird no one else seemed to have done it
yet
everyone was everyone was talking about
emoji because Unicode had just released
well just said they're releasing all
these new emoji can now be a Unicode are
Spock hand in the in the in the actual
standard which is wonderful
there is also reversed victory sign
that's in the spec now and with it with
there being a social network for
everything and everyone talking about in
mode yeah because y'all would just come
and look how that idea didn't collide in
more people's heads we don't know um it
turns out it had collided in a few other
people's heads they might have got to
market first but we'll get to that in a
minute the important thing is we got to
reservation route cut to reserving user
names first yeah we on the overground on
the way home from Westfield Stratford we
came up with a name I reserved the
domain emoji on my phone on the tube why
fight yeah cuz you can do that now um
welcome to 2014
um and we thought this is gonna be a
really easy build it's just an instant
messenger there is not very much on the
back end there's not much on the front
end we'll have it done in a week it
can't be that hard no I thank you it's a
laughter from the feedback there is
someone who's tried to do this before
yeah um so a week later we hadn't done
it so I quickly cobbled together a thing
that would take an email address and a
user name which of course had to be
emoji
uh I'm just kind of reserved it and send
you an email saying thanks we'll get to
you soon and we figured that's fine no
one's going to pay any attention and if
no one pays any attention which they
won't we can just say it was a joke and
we can forget about it we've put up a
little video just uh
as Tom and I do every so often to
explain what it was and our idea and
then a few people saw that yeah yeah
quite quite a few up so we have seventy
thousand usernames reserved within a
couple of days seventy thousand for a
silly little idea we had on a bench at
Westfield and the lovely thing is no one
was bitter that their actual use them
because I'm Tom Scott with 40s on
Instagram because I got there to light a
5tz if you count the one at the start um
you can't do that because if your
username is emoji you suddenly have the
problem that you can't type your night
like well some people did we had some
really creative on have you looked
through the username risk I've seen a
few but I haven't seen any of actual
people's names I mean the song called
Adam got
one because uh because emojis based in
is cut has come out of Japan it has
symbols for blood types in there which
means you've got a B and O in there um
there is a D something that looks like a
Dean there's a chart that looks like an
M so you get a DA M you can also if you
include the dollar sign as an S get the
word boobs
several people did yeah yeah because
there's also one that says there's also
an arrow with free above it so we have
we had free boobs we had cool boobs we
had well I don't think there's anything
beginning with F in there like this um
horoscope signs that kind of look a bit
like but not actually meant to get
actual proper Ofcom banned words in
there as far as I know if you did don't
take that as a challenge
we basically did an emoji spelling
competition by accident yeah and some
people didn't seem to understand like we
thought would be nice we put an email
address at the bottom if anyone had any
questions about it
don't do that don't know now hundreds
and hundreds and hundreds of emails on
the first day people saying I tried to
register a smiley face and it's not
working why doesn't that work because
someone has got me the one before you if
there are only 500 emoji they can use
more than one we we sent us we have sent
literally hundreds of emails saying you
have to use more than one because that
username will be taken with you we've
sent dozens of emails saying no you
can't have that because it's already
taken we've sent at least five emails
saying no your user name has to be an
emoji ah the eye and it's like I want to
be careful not being too nasty about
people here because there are folks out
there who are using this our English is
not the first language
there are people out there who genuinely
are not tech savvy and still want part
of this that's absolutely fine but if
you are tech savvy enough to send me an
email complaining about that is on the
screen in front of you so by this point
which is a couple of days in this silly
little idea we had on the bench that we
had no idea how we were actually going
to make her to turn into a support job
technical support job for a1
registration
form that we were doing in our spare
time because we thought it was funny
it's a smattering of applause and under
the microphone will pick that up as ice
other yeah well done did you not see
that coming
really okay good yeah we didn't so then
we had to build the thing um can anyone
guess cuz I'm unprofessional a web
developer I guess that's why that's why
I get paid for i make web toys recycled
as vs. then um i i did all the stuff i
have to code for that is coded very
quickly are very very fast we aim to be
responsive and topical so user skills
from latin lino years of web development
several several kind of years in the to
thousands of web development can anyone
guess what language the backend of emoji
lee is coded in javis JavaScript no no
no js' that is will we'll get to that
later way too modern
there we go PHP so he had Spanish us
boomers in the audience that we had
split up so tom was doing the backend I
was doing the front-end so by day I'm a
broadcast engineer
I don't program I make little web things
every so often but not many people use
guess what I made the app in know
Objective C was the guessing the
audience then now again Stephan and what
was that
no jet no no you've got that half right
yeah
half a second half HTML CSS and
JavaScript I mean now you might ask if
we're doing that why do we not make that
as a web app given that's what it
basically is there are many browsers out
there yes and none of them support emoji
at all
hands up if you've actually looked and
and know how well emoji is supported
yeah I thought I seen Matt Somerville
there who designed trained time to audit
you gaming and you have fought um by
society very way back one yet you Glenn
here Glenn in the front rows a security
expert who is going to be having a field
day after is heard all this by the way
thanks to knowing him and going to this
I am again I don't want to issue this as
an invitation but I say this is someone
who designed it I'm reasonably certain
the security of the stuff we're storing
like no genuine genuinely because we
have a privacy policy and I've had to
register under the Data Protection Act
for the silly little idea we had on a
bench outside Westfield registering
cussed 35 pounds so we have an HTML
chairs front-end we have oh yeah while
I'm complaining about pH so emoji
support and browsers don't support the
iOS are releasing for iPhone iOS does
support it really well to be fair um
Android me Windows Phone
um because Windows Phone runs in chat
Explorer and that's what that doesn't
support hey um emoji in JavaScript are
not handled properly they are treated as
two characters and bundled together um
if you ever tried down here if I say the
words my sequel and Unicode
come on getting your pay yeah on the
back end how I have made sure that are
the stuff that comes in which does come
in really well from from Matt's
JavaScript the stuff that comes in gets
into the database and back out without
being munched bearing in mind I'm using
PHP and my sequel well binary oh no
nobody's you TFM before can still mess
that up sometimes base64 or very girls
half of the crowd knows what I'm talking
about he's going oh did you really
half the crowds go I have no idea what
that is but I'm going to laugh anyway um
yeah but basically we used what we knew
to make something as quickly as possible
yeah where we were well I'll be honest
we're not we weren't going for quality
yeah it took us a month and a bit in our
spare time Bobby and and it's now
watched we launched it yesterday because
that's when Apple approved it the first
time yeah I first I've ever made an app
I didn't do it the way they wanted me to
do it and they approved it I'm not
saying apples review process is not
Fuhrer but it took them 11 minutes and
they only looked at about a couple of
things in the app that to 10:00 to
midnight we got an email saying in
review midnight we got an email saying
preparing for App Store right
we were submitted it a week for and we
had to wait them to do that but what I
love is that they sent that something
email ten minutes before midnight just
before the date when we said we're going
live with this thing I'm not saying it's
sat in a bin for six days until someone
Oh old I meant to be launching that
tomorrow guys got that the and I am
saying that's what happen in the
meantime some things happened people
thought we were a startup many people
journalists from web publication
newspapers I mean it usually big like if
you if ten years ago you said we got
coverage in Time magazine that'll be
really impressive nowadays Time magazine
is just BuzzFeed but they're not
admitting it
like getting a daily review and Time
Magazine's requires you sending it to
them because I'll go oh my god that's
content we can use it I I don't
understand how people cut it how to
white middle class males can have an
idea and it not be a start-up anymore it
we just made a silly thing we look we
look like we're going to be Silicon
Valley types looking for enormous amount
to investment in this we look like we
are going to be the the - I mean the
phrase douche bag douche bag tech Bros
if I actually say it in in in t-shirts
and
yeah launching an app because that's the
way to make a lot of money no we kind of
just had a stupid idea
I'm for the dollars yeah the tech press
disagrees and at least one investment
from this email ders recently disagrees
so we've got a call with them at some
point now I'll be honest for this silly
idea that we've had which I I may have
mentioned this before that we thought
it'd be quick
no and we thought it would be over very
quickly know that we have no spare time
to do yeah
we have no no one has paid us anything
for it so we have spent some of our own
money doing it you might guess what our
intention of continuing to put a lot of
effort into this might be at the moment
it's too high only thing is it works it
works reliably like we have quite a lot
of people using it now we sent 70
thousand emails yesterday to people who
had reserved and confirmed their
username that was from here by the way
we owe you VIPRE here this weekend RIA
yep partly in a lounge partly in his
turn yeah yeah I mean some of those
emails like literally came from my phone
because they were like that's where the
app was running to mmm
and the thing is if he sends 70,000
emails to people and they're on Twitter
and they're saying oh my my username is
aubergine no under 8 teams which is
actually someone's username shout out
there to aubergine no under 18s
we thought there's no way we're going to
have to mark this is adult rated there's
nothing you can do with emotion because
the things I grab the data protection
partly they have to list you have to
list on a date protection act submission
the possible things you might be strong
about people doesn't include sensitive
data and they give an example of what
sensitive data might include it includes
details about people's sexuality
I don't know obviously not that's not
emoji doesn't there's a two men holding
hands emojis that you could use God's
sake so I have to thank you what was
your use name tomm trademark two men
holding hammer sir I'm being really
careful with password security on this
thing but the thing is people haven't
used emojis to converse yet
yeah properly okay there's been a few
the bid a few I saw a friend of mine get
a cup of tea question mark and respond
with a smiley face so you know that's
technically a conversation the bet the
basics yeah basics are there but as soon
as you go out of your Friendship Circle
or your you're known interest your your
comment your commonalities it's the sort
of understanding of what you might mean
in these silly little pictures that
don't actually mean anything that you're
using to converse with gets a bit skewed
we've yeah cut a few people try to
interview us by sending us a load of
emojis which we have no idea what they
were on about so we guessed something
and send it back they had no idea what
we meant but they published it yep
ah I haven't mentioned the verb the
thing where if we are mean we took a
month to go from his username
- here's your app uh in that month -
other emoji only messengers marched
neither of which is godly press because
we kinda spoiled it for them one of
which is called emoji I wonder where
they got that name from now to be fair
we emailed them and said uh guys you won
what guy whose it was one name on the
thing um you're using the same name as
us um you registered your domain are
three weeks after we launched and you
you registered your Twitter which is
something you're our name with a couple
of letters on the end of it are several
weeks after we launched did you not
notice oh if you were starting something
would you do --gel the name that you
don't voice I'll see if anyone is
something you do yeah yeah um and said
no no we've been plying this for a while
oh really yeah yeah 21 are five-star
reviews on their app are all in in
slightly sort of one sentence pidgin
English they've all vanished now I can't
I can't imagine why's no reviews for
anymore still slightly ahead of us on
the App Store which is really annoying
you know what cuz we are getting tech
support requests for their I can't find
where to unlock my username yeah that's
it's wrong and that's rung up I know I
can't talk to my friends up hung up
yeah don't build an app yeah that's
basically what we're saying because the
the economics doesn't make sense no one
will make money off this the support
time doesn't make sense and you have to
think about your own personal knowledge
and skills yeah yeah that if they
involve making apps yeah then you might
have a chance
unfazed we now have to update this rile
site cuz it turns out doesn't work on us
where can I sit and we've we've had a
few emails saying why doesn't work on
iOS 6 no nevermind Android get to that
later
if I isn't it work on iOS 6 and the real
answer for that is I tried running out
and I are sick
and it didn't work it works on iOS 7 so
tick the box not on IR 6 because I had
spent a month on this bloody thing the
lights gonna be I don't I don't come off
come across as ungrateful I don't know
we've got 70,000 usernames on this thing
and that's really cool and yep as I said
we have made a thing it's great
unfortunately have now made a millstone
that is around our neck so that's that's
not that's not good we had I think oh I
dealt with a hundred tech support
requests this morning yeah um
ninety percent of which were actually
dealt with by the automatic vacation
response that I put on the Gmail thing
saying we're a bit busy this'll probably
solve it so let's open the floor to
questions let's let's dig yeah I'm guy
over there in the really cool skeleton
hoodie if you can yell really loud then
we'll repeat your question other people
in here have we tried selling the app to
the person that wants to the other
person mafia I know that I'd I think
what we actually did was file a request
with Apple are saying the colour nicked
our name and you might expect Apple's
response to that was nothing absolutely
they didn't reply I ignored it um imma
take Glen your hands up first
I'll dear when are we gonna go public
with our first round of shares now the
thing is I don't to be too cynical here
because we do have 70,000 usernames
they're like some of them haven't been
pulled out yet because the way through
Android release if someone were to come
along and say yeah we actually want to
take this off your hands because this is
a thing that would start yeah okay
they're welcome to it but we're not
startup people we're not business people
we're not businessmen we really don't
want to run a startup and the thing is
when we may have sounded bitter about it
that's mainly because we have spent a
month of all of our spare time we both
have full-time jobs which can be
reasonably demanding and we're spending
every waking moment trying to make this
thing so we might be sounding a bit more
bitter about it than we could be
otherwise but I'm certainly very proud
of the fact that we know
all about making out so we seem to have
made one and launched one who got 70,000
registrations on it so if it turns out
that some investor wants it then lovely
but I suggest that they find the tech
your team and you breaking something
they already have rather than trying to
give us vague incompetence money to do
it yeah we don't want it to die yeah we
don't really wanted to live either we
don't we we don't have the time to keep
it alive
uh yeah guy in the green top just at
that car key yeah but have when did we
realize that internet startup culture
gone beyond parity yo yo yeah that's no
not young when yo got investment yes
when yo got more than a million dollars
when investment fund daddy's the point
with the pivoted now by the way pivot
means oh dear that idea didn't work
start everything over straight over
fresh again um they they're now a proper
notification service because that that's
yeah good bad ugly duckling look in fact
I don't think of this my favorite quote
from the review of us oh yeah we got we
got reviews
my favorite was can trim the exact
wording something long lines finally we
found something worse than yo
so I thought well we need something in
our app store description so I put two
good quotes on that at the bottom I'm
not going to say they're wrong uh yep
just that yes have we tried replacing
utf-8 sequences with images yes are
there is a what there's a lively for
doing that in JavaScript um what we bait
what I basically for the website is only
a couple of places you need it on the
web um in most cases people were looking
at it through a phone's browser that
will automatically do the replacement
anyway um what I'm actually using is a
font stack um on Apple you can use up to
the emoji font Android doesn't emoji
font on windows though is actually a
font on windows 7 and later called Segoe
UI symbol which includes full list of
emojis with image with pictograms for
them so most cases it's use that the
trouble is that there are no copyright
free or creative commons or easily
licensed sets of emoji right now that's
one of the big crumbs we have is that we
either have to get someone to draw every
emoji for us yeah use the investment
money for that it says um
we are someone did know someone said put
it on Kickstarter and there was a
Kickstarter for opening oh geez and he
got an enormous amount of money and then
it got about 10 percent the way through
and they said nope noob it's not
finished
um github I think is basically just
using apples and converting them into
images and because github a really cool
no one really minds I don't Apple would
really mind because I see places have
been using their images and just this
there is a question about whether you
can copyright a font what is a font what
is a series of images um if they package
up the series of images as a font does
that make it copyright of all we don't
want to get involved in that which is
one of the reasons we're just using the
native UI
I'm Matt you look like you have some at
some of the looks like something to add
relevant as the user to what to draw
their username I don't know how to do
that so you know what that's togethers
that is going to get his drawing of a
drawing of a drawing of a
I am NOT moderating 10,000 pictures like
that just to try and get a list like I
would rather pay to have someone draw
them than have to go through what
that's a job I could take yeah I'm gonna
stop this boy goes beyond the code of
conduct here in all seriousness um
anyone else from the floor with a
question that will not go well not drag
down incredibly terrible alley oh yeah
quite a guy on the left right yeah
okay Roy yeah so the back end will
support it yeah no worries I'll give you
a bit more background on how the app has
been developed I've used Cordova or
PhoneGap it seems to have two names I
don't quite understand why which is a
way of packaging a website into an app
and that's vaguely cross-platform very
good but for you to be able to test
things reasonably well you need to have
the devices I have iPhone I have an iPad
so that's why what I've gone with with
iOS is because I can test it ok it might
not be the best stuff in the world
currently but I I have some standards
and the app that is currently out has
passed those standards because I've been
able to test them I don't have an
Android device we've already put quite a
bit of money into this to get it going I
don't want to buy one the amount of time
taking it the code isn't going to be you
know directly portable also that means
on the back ends Android push
notifications which are even more
interesting than Apple's push note I
forgot about the push notification oh
yeah yeah coz right ok here is the
problem I mentioned the PHP I mention
the JavaScript except push notifications
I am using a library because of course
use a library that makes that makes a
lot of sense push notification tap
number one question mark has sent you
question mark number two slash question
mark has sent you slash but no tap
number three slash slash slash question
mark is it no 10 number 4 /x - what I
thought we're in a different place at
this point well in Tom as I mentioned is
for push notifications to work and
basically for anything Apple to work you
have to generate certificates you have
to have a server certificate you have to
have you use a certificate you have to
have an app certificate and a developer
certificate and then also for the push
notifications you have to have a sandbox
certificate that only worked on his
phone yeah I was in the same place I'm
because I had all this difficult on in
my in my room to be able to put it so so
each one of those was not just me going
tuk-tuk-tuk I'll let him work it was
time's up tap tap and then I get a push
notification with a little gobbledygook
which I would screenshot and I message
back to him and then he would send back
to me some swear words or things along
that line reversed victory hand yeah
that answers the Android question more
relaxed we got I think that about 5-10
minutes left I've anything anywhere else
yo
blimey all right let's go left here
let's go guy in the blue oh hi Alex
why not take the money okay we really
don't want to quit our jobs to do this
we both have jobs we enjoy the this in
its current time scale as of finishing
yesterday when we launched it still
classes as fun
we're not out developers we do not want
this is our job like we would happily
take we would happily take the money and
and give it some money on to someone
else I'm sure at some point we have a
price but and we're willing to discuss
that if anyone just want to take it and
make it but we don't want to spend the
next year of our lives getting aqua
hired by some big corporation doing
something we don't enjoy we've already
got our careers which were yes setting
we like doing with while we leave that
for something that isn't from it it's
good because it's enough in an unload
unless they honest when they say when we
say yo got 1.2 million in funding that
doesn't mean that they are walking out
with $600,000 one knows for them so
they're not walking out with $300,000
each that comes with conditions and
because we have been working there for a
year and hiring other people to make it
work out like then I can't see like
we're in an app bubble now that's fairly
obvious I think we're in we're in the
same kind of bubble as the dot-com
bubble before it it they will walk out
to that probably with a decent salary
for the time they spent on it um we've
got that on things we actually enjoy I'm
getting paid to work those words to them
three days a week and the rest of time
I'm making videos for YouTube and
looking at TV stuff that's what I want
to do
yeah I'm a broadcast engineer I like
doing that I'm having great fun doing
that I'm gonna keep doing that if
they'll keep employing me so if it's
okay if someone wants to take wants to
buy a helper thing and take it and run
with it and give it to a team who can
actually make something good with it
hello atomo Julie yeah um but there's
not much we and there's not much we
could usefully do like there are ways I
could miss assuming you could monetize
it I give the many suggestions we've had
but we don't we don't have the skill
without the time we'd have will so
that's why drunks that question so we've
got one minute left I think that's a
stage well we how we doing I think let's
take one or two more that would ah okay
very quickly there are two hands up
there is anyone's going to take that
question who was it
have you got a trademark no you know why
trademarks cost money you know we're not
you per spending any more than this no
more money because the Apple developers
thing cost money and the SSL certificate
because we're running fully SSL cost
money are the hosting I need to mention
a house bite mark bite mark are also
sponsoring the hosting 3mf camp which is
where we are that I was watching it
online um very very generously yeah AUSA
two hosts seriously I just they said can
we host I said yeah we need an SL
servant we'll need to handle this load
Missa and it's just stayed up overnight
with 70,000 emails being sent out and it
has worked they are good at what they do
they also have sales versus them where I
work although like that's paid for but I
can't stress how good they only have
actually um so there was one more one
more
a please make this a good question to
close on the pressure is on you this is
the last question question to end it
with but I'll write all the weekend I
was going to do anything with a
conversation data are and are we gonna
do natural language processing I no no
no
we're not Facebook we're not OkCupid
we're not going to run experiments on
our users while technically our privacy
policy says we can use it for internal
record-keeping and things like that
we're not it's not no in fact I can I
can modify the question slightly yeah
are we going to do anything no no that's
my pride he's Tom Scott's thank you
you